UES Teo TS Sa tonal P aN ART. 2.7] The Behavior of Bodies under Stress 25 Ras pe aring ie ale be served over a period of 10 years, though ordinarily it ceases or becomes sg biaxiay imperceptible within 1 or 2 years. The rate of flow is greater for air Als that than for water storage, greater for small than for large specimens, and for moderate stresses increases approximately as the applied stress. On removal of stress, some elastic recovery occurs. Concrete also shows creep under tensile stress, the early creep rate being greater than the flow rate under compression (Refs. 11 and 16). Under very gradually applied loading concrete exhibits an ultimate lle strength considerably less than that found under short-time loading; taal in certain compression tests it was found that increasing the time “ength, of testing from 1s to 4h decreased the unit stress at failure about Stribu- 30%, most of this decrease occurring between the extremely quick (1 y State, or 2s) and the conventional (several minutes) testing. This indicates € until | that the compressive stress that concrete can sustain indefinitely impor- may be considerably less than the ultimate strength as determined solute | by a conventional test. On the other hand, the long-time imposition of atmo- a moderate loading appears to have no harmful effect; certain tests lesign- | show that after 10 years of constant loading equal to one-fourth the ultimate strength, the compressive strength of concrete cylinders is practically the same and the modulus of elasticity is considerably greater than for similar cylinders that were not kept under load steam (Ref. 15). rsonic The modulus of rupture of plain concrete also decreases with the -ellent | time of loading, and some tests indicate that the long-time strength onway rs ae may be only 55 to 75% of the short-time strength equa- el. 2 Reference 17 is a compilation of 12 papers, each with extensive refer- Me hie | ences, dealing with the effect of volumetric changes on concrete struc- billet tures. Design modifications to accommodate these volumetric changes onsen | are the main thrust of the papers. ~usses Wood. Wood also yields under sustained stress; the long-time (several Penny years) strength is about 55% of the short-time (several minutes) xperi- a strength in bending; for direct compression parallel to the grain the syeral 3 corresponding ratio is about 75% (Ref. 2). fell as rence 2.7 Criteria of Elastic Failure and of Rupture For the purpose of this discussion it is convenient to divide metals into | two classes: (1) ductile metals, in which marked plastic deformation being commences at a fairly definite stress (yield point, yield strength, or o list™ possibly elastic limit) and which exhibit considerable ultimate Slovn a- 7 “ion; and (2) brittle metals, for which the beginning of plastic a Ree clearly defined and which exhibit little ultimate elongation. steel 1s typical of the first class, and cast iron is typical of the mn ob-